# Documentation Theory

Documenting your work is crucial in Computational Biology/Bioinformatics. This way you can make sure your work is reproducible, 
you can transfer text to other documents, such as reports or papers and you can send it to collegues, so that they can access your work.   

You are required to write a Lab Book for this module, which will count as part of your evaluation. It must be in computational format, but you can choose what suits you best: docx, google docs, markdown, latex, etc. Latex is a great option, since it formats the document automatically. It also organizes your references and numbering of figures. The downside to it is it requires learning a new system. A Latex template can be found here: https://github.com/waltercostamb/Lab-Book/blob/master/lab-book.tex  

You should divide the lab book into sections (days) and add subsections for different tasks. 
Each subsection should have a meaningful title, e. g. "Documenting module *Viromics-Bioinformatics*", "Downloading phage sequences", "Evaluating sequence quality". Any relevant information should be included, such as websites used in searches, folders 
where you can find files, tool names and versions and bibliographic references. An example can be seen in the link: 
https://github.com/waltercostamb/course_viral-microbiology/blob/main/tutorials/lab-book.pdf. Start your lab book today and write on it 
whenever necessary during the module. In the last day, send a copy to your advisor.    

The paper "Ten Simple Rules for a Computational Biologist’s Laboratory Notebook", by Santiago Schnell of 2015 offers interesting insights: https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004385 Most relevant are rules 4, 6 and 10. Keeping a hard copy of your lab book is not necessary, however make sure you have it backed up. 

# Directions

- Write in your lab book every day, documenting your tasks
- Structure it in cronological order, so that each section corresponds to a different day
- The theoretical part of the module will be covered in the mornings. It will include a series of questions. Document the questions and answers in the lab book. These will also be considered in your final evaluation 
- In your experiments, use a logical order for naming your folders. For instance: 0_download, 1_quality_evaluation, 2_assembly. Always name them in your lab book, so that you can find your files while reading the lab book in the future

# Supplementary reference

- "Ten Simple Rules for Reproducible Computational Research", by Geir Sandve and collaborators, 2013: https://app.dimensions.ai/details/publication/pub.1022987921


