# Introduction to Computational Biology II

## Objectives

Learn about algorithms and sequence alignment. Alignment is one of the most important topics for computational biology and the basis for the project's experiments: assembly, phage classification and annotation. Answer the following questions with an online search. 
You can complement your search with ChatGPT, if you wish (see below), but do not restrict yourself with this tool. Include the references you used to answer every question.  

-------

- What is an algorithm? 
- Give an example of an algorithm that is relevant for Bioinformatics
- What is a sequence assembly?

-----

Objectives:

-------

- Understand what is an algorithm and its relevance to Bioinformatics research
- Give an example of an algorithm
- Understand what is sequence assembly

-----

The following book, by Prof. Manolis Kellis, was used for a course on Computational Biology and contains several topics that are relevant for our module: https://ocw.mit.edu/ans7870/6/6.047/f15/MIT6_047F15_Compiled.pdf Read the following sections and summarize their key points in your lab book:

---------

- Read pages 25 to 30 of chapter "SEQUENCE ALIGNMENT AND DYNAMIC PROGRAMMING"  
- Read section "2.4.1 Theory of Dynamic Programming"
- Read section 2.4.3

---------

If there is time:

---------

- Try out the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm for different sequences in: https://rna.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/Teaching/index.jsp?toolName=Needleman-Wunsch
- Read pages 34 to 39 "2.5 The Needleman-Wunsch Algorithm" 

---------

## ChatGPT

ChatGPT is an important artificial intelligence tool that has been developed recently. It can help you to learn, since it is an interactive tool. You can ask questions and it will interact with you in a conversational way: https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt  

Even though its interaction with the user is amazing and it outputs interesting information, you should also use it critically. This tool is concerned with language and not with scientific accuracy. 
It can help you to program and even answer scientific questions, but you should always double check the information using a trusted source.  

If you decide to use ChatGPT, what differences do you notice when using it in comparison to google?
